README.md, before:

***rjutils*** : Enhanced R functions
================================================================================

![](https://img.shields.io/badge/life_cycle-maturing-blue)
![](https://img.shields.io/badge/release_version-0.1-blue)
![](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-0%25-red)
![](https://img.shields.io/badge/tests-0%25-black)

Welcome to `rjutils`, a collection of enhanced functions for `R`, notable :

* A custom `ggplot2` theme called `jtheme`
* Plotting function helpers for `ggplot2`
* Text modification function


Installation
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`rjutils` use the Source Sans Pro, which is an [open source font](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Source+Sans+Pro#standard-styles) from Google. It needs to be installed on your system and in R. It is located in the `assets/` folder of the package. You will need the packages `extrafont` and `Rttf2pt1` in order to get the Source Sans Pro into R properly before you can use `rjutils`.

1. Install `ggplot2` and `extrafont` packages :

```r
install.packages("ggplot2")
install.packages("extrafont")
```

2. Install `Rttf2` using the `remotes` package :

```r
install.packages("remotes")
library(remotes)
remotes::install_version("Rttf2pt1", version = "1.3.8")
```

3. Import the Source Sans Pro font into R :

```r
extrafont::font_import(path = "assets/")
```

4. You can now install `rjutils` directly from GitHub :

```r
install.packages(
    ?????????
)
```

5. You can start using `rjutils`.

```r
library(rjutils)
```

---

Bugfixes
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


### To-do

- Fix argument "bottom" in jarrange() that will put the label below the legend.
- Move all others functions to jtheme or jutils prior to article 3
- Test error message for save_plot()
- Add function to avoid decimal on x-axis
- Add %nin% funciton in rjutils
- Add render_md_github
- geom_col have a color around bar

### Work in progres :

- **Remove warnings() when using jarrange** : Connot reproduce
- **50: In grid.Call(C_textBounds, as.graphicsAnnot(x$label),  ... : largeur de police inconnue pour le caractère 0x20** : Cannot reproduce

### Done :

- Add facet title and size to params of `jtheme(facet_size = 10L, facet_face = "bold")`
- Added fast histogram `plot_hist(x, main, fill)`  in `plots.R`
- Added fast scatter plot `plot_scatter(x, y, main, col)` in `plots.R`
- Added empty plot in `plot_void()` in `plots.R`
- Added another palette of colors (rainbow) in `pal_rbow`
- Renamed `colors` palette to `pal_rdbu` and rearrange order of colors
- Implemented `rotate_x_lab = 90, 45 and 30` instead of `TRUE`
- Removed w and h for save_plot and save_ggplot. Replace by `size = c(w, h)`
- Implemented `axes = FALSE` to remove axes for maps. To be used with `labs(x = NULL, y = NULL)`
- Plot named color of palette when using `plot_pal`. Possibility to rotate names to 90°. Now accept list and vector.
- Migrated `create_lagged_var` from data_weather to this package.
- Migrated `interpolate_na` from data_weather to this package.
- Migrated `xpaste0` from results to this package.
- Migrated `narm`from results to this packages.
- Combined all small low-level function in `helpers.R`
- Got rid of .Rplots.pdf at the root of all Rproject
- Implemented option `title_hjust = 0.5` for `jtheme()` 
- Added the operator `%nin%` which is equivalent to `!(x %in% y)`

Commit message:

Added render_md_github() function.

README.md, after:

***rjutils*** : Enhanced R functions
================================================================================

![](https://img.shields.io/badge/life_cycle-maturing-blue)
![](https://img.shields.io/badge/release_version-0.1-blue)
![](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-0%25-red)
![](https://img.shields.io/badge/tests-0%25-black)

Welcome to `rjutils`, a collection of enhanced functions for `R`, notable :

* A custom `ggplot2` theme called `jtheme`
* Plotting function helpers for `ggplot2`
* Text modification function


Installation
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`rjutils` use the Source Sans Pro, which is an [open source font](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Source+Sans+Pro#standard-styles) from Google. It needs to be installed on your system and in R. It is located in the `assets/` folder of the package. You will need the packages `extrafont` and `Rttf2pt1` in order to get the Source Sans Pro into R properly before you can use `rjutils`.

1. Install `ggplot2` and `extrafont` packages :

```r
install.packages("ggplot2")
install.packages("extrafont")
```

2. Install `Rttf2` using the `remotes` package :

```r
install.packages("remotes")
library(remotes)
remotes::install_version("Rttf2pt1", version = "1.3.8")
```

3. Import the Source Sans Pro font into R :

```r
extrafont::font_import(path = "assets/")
```

4. You can now install `rjutils` directly from GitHub :

```r
install.packages(
    ?????????
)
```

5. You can start using `rjutils`.

```r
library(rjutils)
```

---

Bugfixes
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


### To-do

- Fix argument "bottom" in jarrange() that will put the label below the legend.
- Move all others functions to jtheme or jutils prior to article 3
- Test error message for save_plot()
- Add function to avoid decimal on x-axis
- geom_col have a color around bar

### Work in progres :

- **Remove warnings() when using jarrange** : Connot reproduce
- **50: In grid.Call(C_textBounds, as.graphicsAnnot(x$label),  ... : largeur de police inconnue pour le caractère 0x20** : Cannot reproduce

### Done :

- Add facet title and size to params of `jtheme(facet_size = 10L, facet_face = "bold")`
- Added fast histogram `plot_hist(x, main, fill)`  in `plots.R`
- Added fast scatter plot `plot_scatter(x, y, main, col)` in `plots.R`
- Added empty plot in `plot_void()` in `plots.R`
- Added another palette of colors (rainbow) in `pal_rbow`
- Renamed `colors` palette to `pal_rdbu` and rearrange order of colors
- Implemented `rotate_x_lab = 90, 45 and 30` instead of `TRUE`
- Removed w and h for save_plot and save_ggplot. Replace by `size = c(w, h)`
- Implemented `axes = FALSE` to remove axes for maps. To be used with `labs(x = NULL, y = NULL)`
- Plot named color of palette when using `plot_pal`. Possibility to rotate names to 90°. Now accept list and vector.
- Migrated `create_lagged_var` from data_weather to this package.
- Migrated `interpolate_na` from data_weather to this package.
- Migrated `xpaste0` from results to this package.
- Migrated `narm`from results to this packages.
- Combined all small low-level function in `helpers.R`
- Got rid of .Rplots.pdf at the root of all Rproject
- Implemented option `title_hjust = 0.5` for `jtheme()` 
- Added the operator `%nin%` which is equivalent to `!(x %in% y)`
- Added the function `render_md_github()` which allows conversion of .md to .html with Github format
